# ColonialWaterbirdDatabase
Throughout the Americas, the destruction of freshwater wetlands, destruction and degradation of coastal and marine ecosystems, contaminants, sea level rise, and human disturbance influence waterbird populations. For some species, especially pelagic seabirds, these actions have resulted in declines in numbers; less often, they have resulted in waterbird species becoming nuisance wildlife. A critical element of conserving and managing waterbirds is a comprehensive monitoring program. Waterbird conservation planning and management decisions depend on measuring and evaluating population change as a basis for setting policy, identifying management and research priorities, and evaluating management actions

Database Access: Data Retrieval Disclaimer 
DATA LIABILITY DISCLAIMER AND TERMS
Although the waterbird data associated with this database have undergone substantial editing and review prior to posting, not all errors or inaccuracies have been detected. Thus, waterbird data should be regarded as provisional since subsequent reviews may result in significant revisions to the data. Database users should be especially careful when reviewing data retrieved from this database as particular data points may be stored in the database more than once under different publication sources. Data users are cautioned to consider carefully the provisional nature of the information before using it for decisions that concern personal or public safety or the conduct of business that involves substantial monetary or operational consequences. Information concerning the accuracy and appropriate uses of these data may be obtained from the Waterbird Monitoring Partnership Coordinator . 

These data have been processed successfully on a computer system at the USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center , however no warranty expressed or implied is made regarding the accuracy or utility of the data on any other system or for general or scientific purposes, nor shall the act of distribution constitute any such warranty. This disclaimer applies both to individual use of the data and aggregate use of the data. It is strongly recommended that these data are directly acquired from USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center and not indirectly through other sources which may have changed the data in some way. The U.S. Geological Survey shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the data retrieved from the Waterbird Monitoring Partnership database.

These data are the result of efforts by thousands of participants in the field, as well as USGS managers. All publications based on these data should acknowledge all of these efforts; each data point has an associated data source reference. If a publication is based solely on the analysis of this data, we suggest that you involve USGS with the writing and/or review of the manuscript. We would also appreciate receiving a reprint or photocopy of any such article at the time of its publication. 

Finally, if you are not already doing so, we encourage you to participate in the Waterbird Monitoring Partnership by becoming involved in a Regional Working Group or by contributing waterbird data you are collecting to the database. Thank you for supporting this important program and working towards assuring the long term conservation of waterbirds throughout their ranges.

